<!-- This file is auto-generated by tasks/website_linter/src/rules/doc_page.rs. Do not edit it manually. -->

<script setup>
import { data } from '../version.data.js';
const source = `https://github.com/oxc-project/oxc/blob/${ data }/crates/oxc_linter/src/rules/typescript/ban_ts_comment.rs`;
</script>

# typescript/ban-ts-comment <Badge type="info" text="Pedantic" />

<div class="rule-meta">
<Alert class="fix" type="info">
<span class="emoji">🛠️</span> An auto-fix is available for this rule for some violations.
</Alert>
</div>

### What it does

This rule lets you set which directive comments you want to allow in your codebase.

### Why is this bad?

Using TypeScript directives to suppress TypeScript compiler errors
reduces the effectiveness of TypeScript overall.

### Examples

Examples of **incorrect** code for this rule:

```ts
if (false) {
  // @ts-ignore: Unreachable code error
  console.log("hello");
}
```

## Configuration

This rule allows you to specify how different TypeScript directive comments
should be handled.

For each directive (`@ts-expect-error`, `@ts-ignore`, `@ts-nocheck`, `@ts-check`), you can choose one of the following options:

- `true`: Disallow the directive entirely, preventing its use in the entire codebase.
- `false`: Allow the directive without any restrictions.
- `"allow-with-description"`: Allow the directive only if it is followed by a description explaining its use. The description must meet the minimum length specified by `minimumDescriptionLength`.
- `{ "descriptionFormat": "<regex>" }`: Allow the directive only if the description matches the specified regex pattern.

For example:

```json
{
  "ts-expect-error": "allow-with-description",
  "ts-ignore": true,
  "ts-nocheck": { "descriptionFormat": "^: TS\\d+ because .+$" },
  "ts-check": false,
  "minimumDescriptionLength": 3
}
```

This rule accepts a configuration object with the following properties:

### minimumDescriptionLength

type: `integer`

default: `3`

Minimum description length required when using directives with `allow-with-description`.

### ts-check

How to handle the `@ts-check` directive.

### ts-expect-error

How to handle the `@ts-expect-error` directive.

### ts-ignore

How to handle the `@ts-ignore` directive.

### ts-nocheck

How to handle the `@ts-nocheck` directive.

## How to use

To **enable** this rule using the config file or in the CLI, you can use:

::: code-group

```json [Config (.oxlintrc.json)]
{
  "rules": {
    "typescript/ban-ts-comment": "error"
  }
}
```

```bash [CLI]
oxlint --deny typescript/ban-ts-comment
```

:::

## References

- <a v-bind:href="source" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer">Rule Source</a>
