<!-- This file is auto-generated by tasks/website_linter/src/rules/doc_page.rs. Do not edit it manually. -->

<script setup>
import { data } from '../version.data.js';
const source = `https://github.com/oxc-project/oxc/blob/${ data }/crates/oxc_linter/src/rules/typescript/consistent_generic_constructors.rs`;
</script>

# typescript/consistent-generic-constructors <Badge type="info" text="Style" />

<div class="rule-meta">
<Alert class="fix" type="info">
<span class="emoji">🚧</span> An auto-fix is planned for this rule, but not implemented at this time.
</Alert>
</div>

### What it does

When constructing a generic class, you can specify the type arguments on either the left-hand side (as a type annotation) or the right-hand side (as part of the constructor call).

This rule enforces consistency in the way generic constructors are used.

### Why is this bad?

Inconsistent usage of generic constructors can make the code harder to read and maintain.

### Examples

Examples of **incorrect** code for this rule:

```ts
const a: Foo<string> = new Foo();
const a = new Foo<string>(); // prefer type annotation
```

Examples of **correct** code for this rule:

```ts
const a = new Foo<string>();
const a: Foo<string> = new Foo(); // prefer type annotation
```

## Configuration

This rule accepts a configuration object with the following properties:

### option

type: `"constructor" | "type-annotation"`

default: `"constructor"`

Specifies where the generic type should be specified.

Possible values:

- `"constructor"` (default): Type arguments that only appear on the type annotation are disallowed.
- `"type-annotation"`: Type arguments that only appear on the constructor are disallowed.

#### `"constructor"`

Type arguments that only appear on the type annotation are disallowed.

#### `"type-annotation"`

Type arguments that only appear on the constructor are disallowed.

## How to use

To **enable** this rule using the config file or in the CLI, you can use:

::: code-group

```json [Config (.oxlintrc.json)]
{
    "rules": {
        "typescript/consistent-generic-constructors": "error"
    }
}
```

```bash [CLI]
oxlint --deny typescript/consistent-generic-constructors
```

:::

## References

- <a v-bind:href="source" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer">Rule Source</a>
