<!-- This file is auto-generated by tasks/website_linter/src/rules/doc_page.rs. Do not edit it manually. -->

<script setup>
import { data } from '../version.data.js';
const source = `https://github.com/oxc-project/oxc/blob/${ data }/crates/oxc_linter/src/rules/eslint/operator_assignment.rs`;
</script>

# eslint/operator-assignment <Badge type="info" text="Style" />

<div class="rule-meta">
<Alert class="fix" type="info">
<span class="emoji">⚠️🛠️️</span> A dangerous auto-fix is available for this rule.
</Alert>
</div>

### What it does

This rule requires or disallows assignment operator shorthand where possible.
It encourages the use of shorthand assignment operators like `+=`, `-=`, `*=`, `/=`, etc.
to make the code more concise and readable.

### Why is this bad?

JavaScript provides shorthand operators that combine variable assignment and simple
mathematical operations. Failing to use these shorthand operators can lead to unnecessarily
verbose code and can be seen as a missed opportunity for clarity and simplicity.

### Examples

Examples of **incorrect** code for this rule with the default `always` option:

```js
x = x + y;
x = y * x;
x[0] = x[0] / y;
x.y = x.y << z;
```

Examples of **correct** code for this rule with the default `always` option:

```js
x = y;
x += y;
x = y * z;
x = (x * y) * z;
x[0] /= y;
x[foo()] = x[foo()] % 2;
x = y + x; // `+` is not always commutative (e.g. x = "abc")
```

Examples of **incorrect** code for this rule with the `never` option:

```js
x *= y;
x ^= (y + z) / foo();
```

Examples of **correct** code for this rule with the `never` option:

```js
x = x + y;
x.y = x.y / a.b;
```

## Configuration

This rule accepts one of the following string values:

### `"always"`

Requires assignment operator shorthand where possible.

### `"never"`

Disallows assignment operator shorthand.

## How to use

To **enable** this rule using the config file or in the CLI, you can use:

::: code-group

```json [Config (.oxlintrc.json)]
{
  "rules": {
    "operator-assignment": "error"
  }
}
```

```bash [CLI]
oxlint --deny operator-assignment
```

:::

## References

- <a v-bind:href="source" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer">Rule Source</a>
