<!-- This file is auto-generated by tasks/website_linter/src/rules/doc_page.rs. Do not edit it manually. -->

<script setup>
import { data } from '../version.data.js';
const source = `https://github.com/oxc-project/oxc/blob/${ data }/crates/oxc_linter/src/rules/jest/no_deprecated_functions.rs`;
</script>

# jest/no-deprecated-functions <Badge type="info" text="Style" />

<div class="rule-meta">
<Alert class="fix" type="info">
<span class="emoji">🛠️</span> An auto-fix is available for this rule.
</Alert>
</div>

### What it does

Over the years Jest has accrued some debt in the form of functions that have
either been renamed for clarity, or replaced with more powerful APIs.

This rule can also autofix a number of these deprecations for you.

#### `jest.resetModuleRegistry`

This function was renamed to `resetModules` in Jest 15 and removed in Jest 27.

#### `jest.addMatchers`

This function was replaced with `expect.extend` in Jest 17 and removed in Jest 27.

#### `require.requireActual` & `require.requireMock`

These functions were replaced in Jest 21 and removed in Jest 26.

Originally, the `requireActual` and `requireMock` functions were placed
onto the `require` function.

These functions were later moved onto the `jest` object in order to be easier
for type checkers to handle, and their use via `require` deprecated. Finally,
the release of Jest 26 saw them removed from the `require` function altogether.

#### `jest.runTimersToTime`

This function was renamed to `advanceTimersByTime` in Jest 22 and removed in Jest 27.

#### `jest.genMockFromModule`

This function was renamed to `createMockFromModule` in Jest 26, and is scheduled for removal in Jest 30.

### Why is this bad?

While typically these deprecated functions are kept in the codebase for a number
of majors, eventually they are removed completely.

### Examples

Examples of **incorrect** code for this rule:

```javascript
jest.resetModuleRegistry; // since Jest 15
jest.addMatchers; // since Jest 17
```

## Configuration

This rule accepts a configuration object with the following properties:

### jest

type: `object`

Jest configuration options.

#### jest.version

type: `string`

default: `"29"`

The version of Jest being used.

## How to use

To **enable** this rule in the CLI or using the config file, you can use:

::: code-group

```bash [CLI]
oxlint --deny jest/no-deprecated-functions --jest-plugin
```

```json [Config (.oxlintrc.json)]
{
  "plugins": ["jest"],
  "rules": {
    "jest/no-deprecated-functions": "error"
  }
}
```

:::

## References

- <a v-bind:href="source" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer">Rule Source</a>
