<!-- This file is auto-generated by tasks/website/src/linter/rules/doc_page.rs. Do not edit it manually. -->

# jsx_a11y/aria-role <Badge type="info" text="Correctness" />

<div class="rule-meta">
<Alert class="default-on" type="success">
<span class="emoji">✅</span> This rule is turned on by default.
</Alert>
</div>

### What it does

Elements with ARIA roles must use a valid, non-abstract ARIA role. A
reference to role definitions can be found at
[WAI-ARIA](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria/#role_definitions) site.

### Why is this bad?

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that Assistive
Technologies (AT) can gather information about, activate (or set) and
keep up to date on the status of user interface controls in the
content(such as screen readers, screen magnifiers, and speech
recognition software, used by people with disabilities).

When standard controls from accessible technologies are used, this
process is straightforward. If the user interface elements are used
according to specification the conditions of this provision will be met.

If custom controls are created, however, or interface elements are
programmed (in code or script) to have a different role and/or function
than usual, then additional measures need to be taken to ensure that the
controls provide important information to assistive technologies and
allow themselves to be controlled by assistive technologies. A
particularly important state of a user interface control is whether or
not it has focus. The focus state of a control can be programmatically
determined, and notifications about change of focus are sent to user
agents and assistive technology. Other examples of user interface
control state are whether or not a checkbox or radio button has been
selected, or whether or not a collapsible tree or list node is expanded
or collapsed.

### Rule options

This rule takes one optional object argument of type object:

```json
{
  "rules": {
    "jsx-a11y/aria-role": [
      2,
      {
        "allowedInvalidRoles": ["text"],
        "ignoreNonDOM": true
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

`allowedInvalidRules` is an optional string array of custom roles that
should be allowed in addition to the ARIA spec, such as for cases when
you need to use a non-standard role.

For the `ignoreNonDOM` option, this determines if developer created
components are checked.

### Example

Examples of **incorrect** code for this rule:

```jsx
<div role="datepicker"></div> <!-- Bad: "datepicker" is not an ARIA role -->
<div role="range"></div>      <!-- Bad: "range" is an _abstract_ ARIA role -->
<div role=""></div>           <!-- Bad: An empty ARIA role is not allowed -->
<Foo role={role}></Foo>       <!-- Bad: ignoreNonDOM is set to false or not set -->
```

Examples of **correct** code for this rule:

```jsx
<div role="button"></div>     <!-- Good: "button" is a valid ARIA role -->
<div role={role}></div>       <!-- Good: role is a variable & cannot be determined until runtime. -->
<div></div>                   <!-- Good: No ARIA role -->
<Foo role={role}></Foo>       <!-- Good: ignoreNonDOM is set to true -->
```

## How to use

To **enable** this rule in the CLI or using the config file, you can use:

::: code-group

```bash [CLI]
oxlint --deny jsx-a11y/aria-role --jsx-a11y-plugin
```

```json [Config (.oxlintrc.json)]
{
  "plugins": ["jsx-a11y"],
  "rules": {
    "jsx-a11y/aria-role": "error"
  }
}
```

:::

## References

- [Rule Source](https://github.com/oxc-project/oxc/blob/aba3654b81166a7d52f13ac067ffa4bab5e702c9/crates/oxc_linter/src/rules/jsx_a11y/aria_role.rs)
